Jenkins and Git 

Question: What is Jenkins

Answer:
1. Jenkins is a free open source Continuous Integration tool and automation server 
   to monitor continuous integration and delivery. It is written in Java.
  
Question: What are the features of jenkins

Answer:
1. It is an extensible automation server which helps for continuous integration and continuous delivery
2. Jenkins supports contineous integration so it allows developers to commit multiple codes changes every day.
   So it helps to found any defects or breackages in the early stage of application development life cucle
3. It also allows developers to integrate there code changes into the project
4. Jenkins support many useful plugins some of them are listed below
   Maven 2 project
   Git
   Amazon EC2
   HTML publisher
   Copy artifact
   Join
   Green Balls
5. It is free and open source and Easy to set up, install and use on any platform because it is based on Java
6. Supports distributed builds due to master-slave architecture, thus reducing the load on the CI server

Question: Other contineous integration tools and how jenkins better than those

 Answer: Below are some other contineous integration tools 
    
	 TeamCity
	 Bamboo
     Perforce
     Circle CI
     Go
     ThoughtWorks
     Integrity
     Travis CI
	 
	 As jenkins is free ware and supports many plugins and not so complex like Team city and bamboo offers efficient and faster
	 but not completely free
	 
Question:How do you install Jenkins?
Answer: To install Jenkins, make sure the following are installed –

Java (version 8)
Apache Tomcat (version 9)
Download the Jenkins war file and deploy it using Tomcat. 
You can choose to install the plugins suggested by Jenkins during the installation itself. 
Once the installation is done, you will be able to see the Jenkins dashboard.

Question: How can you create a job?
Answer: On the dashboard page, you can just select a ‘New Job’. 
When you create a job, you can choose options such as the SCM, triggers to control, the build script and notifications.

Question: What is meant by Jenkins pipeline?
Answer: A pipeline is a group of interlinked jobs done one after the other in a sequence. To integrate and implement continuous delivery pipelines, Jenkins pipelines provides a combination of plugins. The instructions to be performed are given through code. A continuous delivery pipeline can be represented as –

Question: What are the types of pipelines in Jenkins?
Answer: There are 3 types –

CI CD pipeline (Continuous Integration Continuous Delivery)
Scripted pipeline
Declarative pipeline


